The data above contains some information about an online retail business which has its presence in over 30 countries including the United Kingdom. The purpose of this task was to clean, visualize, analyse and derive compeling insights from the data.

 I have done the preprocessing & cleaning to remove the redundancy and bad data using the Power Query feature of PowerBI. Other methods that could have been used include Excel or Python which I am equally skilled at.
  
  The online retail data was extracted from https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/citation_policy.html. [Daqing Chen, Sai Liang Sain, and Kun Guo, Data mining for the online retail industry: A case study of RFM model-based customer segmentation using data mining, Journal of Database Marketing and Customer Strategy Management, Vol. 19, No. 3, pp. 197–208, 2012 (Published online before print: 27 August 2012. doi: 10.1057/dbm.2012.17)]

Included in this repository is the dashboard -Online Retail.pbix which helps answers the business questions and useful for expansion strategy


Just for some side notes, the data has been scrubbed for records that had negative quantities and unit prices in order to have an error free useful analysis.

The overall dashboard contains infromation about the total revenue made between 2010 and 2011, the number of customers who have bought at least an item during those periods, and the number of countries which have an online presence. In details: the sales graph shows there is a seasonality in the store sales and it can be seen that there are months where exceptional growth is witnessed. The data shows that the renue in the first 8months is fairly constant with an average renue of about 680k euros. The increase in revenue starts in September with over 40% uplift over the previous months. This trend continued till the month of November where around 1.5m euros was generated, the highest during the entire year. This can attributed to the discount black friday and cyber monday sales. In summary, this analysis shows the online retail store sales are impacted by seasonality which usually occurs in the last 4 months of the year.


You will also in the overall dashboard the top 10 countries with the highest revenue. This visual doesnt contain the UK as the country already has high demand and the aim is to focus on the regions where there is opportunities for growth and demand can be increased. The analysis shows that the countries such as the Netherlands, Ireland, Germany and France have high volumes of units sold and revenue generated. These countries should be focused on to ensure that measures are taken to capture these markets even more.

The other graph shows the top 10 customers who have purchased the most from the store. The data shows there isnt too much of a difference between them as the highest revenue generating customer only purchased 17% more than the 2nd highest which shows the business isnt relying only on a few customers to generate revenue and that the bargaining power of the customers is low and the business is in a good position. One suggestions to keep these customers and ensure them to keep buying could include running a customer loyalty program.

The map chart shows the regions that have generated the most revenue compared with the regions that have not. It can be seen that apart from the UK, countries such as Netherlands, Ireland, Germany, France and Australia are generating high revenue and the company should invest more in these areas to increase demand for products. The map also shows that most of the sales are only in the European region with very few in the American region. Africa and Asia do not have any demand for the products, along with Russia. A new strategy targeting these areas has the potential to boost the overall sales revenues and profitability.

You will find in the additional reports the product performance which includes the top 10 and least selling products by revenue; the total sales per country with a pareto hypothesis; the country-wise performance for Sales which shows the top and bottom 5 countries by Sales; the Sales Trend which includes the quantity, revenue and count of invoice per selected countries and then lastly the product wise sales revenue against country which is a scatter chart that show the relationship between the quantity of the product sold and the corresponding revenue generated.
